Step 1: Ensure/Double Check Permissions on Sensitive Files
Permissions on /etc/shadow should allow only root read and write access.


Command to inspect permissions: ls -l  /etc/shadow


Command to set permissions (if needed):


Permissions on /etc/gshadow should allow only root read and write access.


Command to inspect permissions: ls -l  /etc/gshadow


Command to set permissions (if needed):


Permissions on /etc/group should allow root read and write access, and allow everyone else read access only.


Command to inspect permissions: ls -l  /etc/group


Command to set permissions (if needed):


Permissions on /etc/passwd should allow root read and write access, and allow everyone else read access only.


Command to inspect permissions: ls -l  /etc/passwd


Command to set permissions (if needed):


Step 2: Create User Accounts
Add user accounts for sam, joe, amy, sara, and admin.
P.S. : ((UNIX password is made up by you) make sure to remember))

sudo adduser sam Pw: 247mas
sudo adduser joe   Pw: seconduj1
sudo adduser amy Pw: thirdmy3

sudo adduser saraPw: aras4247

sudo adduser adminPw: cyberaccessonly1



Command to add each user account (include all five users):
Ensure that only the admin has general sudo access.


Command to add admin to the sudo group: sudo visudo
sudo usermod -aG sudo admin

To check if work is correct enter: ‘groups admin’
Step 3: Create User Group and Collaborative Folder
Add an engineers group to the system.


Command to add group:sudo addgroup engineers
Add users sam, joe, amy, and sara to the managed group.


Command to add users to engineers group (include all four users): 
sudo usermod -a -G engineers sam
sudo usermod -a -G engineers joe
sudo usermod -a -G engineers amy
sudo usermod -a -G engineers sara
To check if work is correct enter: ls  /home 
Tail  /etc/group


Create a shared folder for this group at /home/engineers.


Command to create the shared folder: sudo mkdir  /home/engineers
Change ownership on the new engineers' shared folder to the engineers group.


Command to change ownership of engineer's shared folder to engineer group: 
sudo chown root: engineers  /home/engineers
Step 4: Lynis Auditing
Command to install Lynis:sudo apt install lynis 


Command to see documentation and instructions: sudo lynis -h


Command to run an audit: sudo lynis audit system


Provide a report from the Lynis output on what can be done to harden the system.


Screenshot of report output:
Bonus
Command to install chkrootkit:sudo apt install chkrootkit
Command to see documentation and instructions: info chkrootkit


Command to run expert mode:sudo chkrootkit  -x


Provide a report from the chkrootkit output on what can be done to harden the system.


Screenshot of end of sample output:

